Hi, my name is Nat Brown,
and I manage a team of engineers
working on game technologies
at Apple.
Today I'd like to tell you
about the heads-up display
for watching and collecting
key real-time graphic statistics
in your applications and games.
Let's take a look at
the Metal Performance HUD.
When enabled,
it will appear as an overlay
in the upper right-hand corner
of your application.
Its purpose is to help you
and your testers
easily spot potential
performance problems
and to log some basic
information for later analysis.
The HUD is a complement to
and not a replacement for
your existing debugging
and performance analysis tools,
one that helps you get
useful information
from quality assurance teams
and customers
with just screenshots and logs
helping you more quickly
reproduce, analyze, and fix
hard-to-reproduce performance
problems and graphics glitches.
Let's take a look at what data
the HUD shows and can collect.
The top line of the HUD
shows you information
about the GPU and the display,
the device being used,
the resolution being targeted,
and the scaling state
of the display.
The HUD shows you
whether you are in the direct
or composited path
of the display.
The direct path
has the least buffering
and the fewest number
of refresh intervals
between when you present
your drawable
and when it appears
on the screen.
When you are composited,
there may be some additional
buffering and display latency
due to system UI elements
or your own additional layers
overlapping the screen.
You're also going to see
the maximum refresh rate
of the physical display
being used.
For variable
refresh rate displays,
you will also see the minimum
refresh rate of the display,
so you'll see the possible
refresh rate ranges
that are available.
Next, the first column
of the real-time data
shows the instantaneous
frame rate in Hertz
or frames per second,
then the pretime, or the time
between your presents,
also known as the frame time or
frame interval in milliseconds.
And finally, the amount of GPU
work that was completed
in the frame interval
also measured in milliseconds.
The second column shows you
a bit more information
about the lowest values
of frame rate, frame interval,
and GPU time spent in the frame
over the last
one and a half seconds.
The HUD highlights in red
when this low value
has deviated significantly
from the average.
The last column
of numerical data in the HUD
shows you the highest
instantaneous frame rate
in the last
one and a half seconds,
the largest single frame time in
the last one and a half seconds,
and the highest GPU cost
in milliseconds of work done
in the last one and a half
seconds of frame intervals.
Unusually high frame intervals
and GPU time
compared to the average are once
again highlighted here in red.
The final section
at the bottom of the HUD
shows you process and GPU
memory consumption information
to help you spot
potential leaks over time
and also a dual-line graph
of the present intervals
and GPU time spent.
The purpose of this information
is to help you and your testers
spot transient frame drops
which you might otherwise miss
and to help you isolate
your deeper testing, debugging,
and performance tuning
using more advanced Xcode
and Instruments tools.
So how do you turn on
the Metal Performance HUD?
Well you might be
surprised to learn
that there are a lot of
different ways to do it
because we know
there are a lot of ways
developers want
to interact with and automate
this form of data collection.
The first is right
from Xcode 14
while you're developing
for iOS, macOS, or tvOS.
In your Run scheme
under the Diagnostics tab,
you'll see the option
to turn the HUD on
by choosing
Show Graphics Overview
and to enable logging data
to the system log
by choosing
Log Graphics Overview.
On iOS and tvOS, if you have
connected the device to Xcode
and enabled it for development,
you can turn on the HUD
and logging using
the Developer Settings.
Just go to
Settings > Developer Settings,
scroll down and enable the HUD
and optionally logging.
On iOS and tvOS, the HUD will
only show up and perform logging
for your own applications;
that is, applications
you have installed via Xcode
or using TestFlight.
On macOS, you can enable
the HUD outside of Xcode
through environment variables.
Set the MTL_HUD_ENABLED
environment variable to one
to show the HUD and set the
MTL_HUD_LOGGING_ENABLED
environment variable to one
to trigger logging.
Another option
you might find useful
is using your application's
user defaults.
On macOS, iOS, and tvOS, you can
set the MetalForceHudEnabled key
to true in your standard
user defaults
and the HUD will display
and logging will occur
for subsequent launches
of your applications.
On macOS, you can set a global
value to have the HUD show
for all Metal-based
applications.
Finally, you can add
the MetalHUDEnabled key
to your Info.plist
to always enable the HUD.
Now if the HUD is enabled,
you can use the CAMetalLayer
developerHUDProperties
dictionary to show
and hide the HUD
and to enable
and disable logging.
Setting the mode key to default
will show the HUD.
Clearing the key
will hide the HUD.
Setting the logging key
to default will enable logging.
Clearing this key
will disable logging.
You might add the Info.plist
key and use this API
if you want to provide
your testers with a UI toggle
in internal builds
to show and hide the HUD.
Now let's take a look at what
the Metal Performance HUD logs.
About once per second the Metal
Performance HUD writes data
to the system log summarizing
the data it is collecting
so you can analyze it
in your own way.
Just launch
the console application
and filter the output
with the string metal-HUD.
Each resulting line will start
Next comes
the first frame number,
then the number of estimated
frame misses.
In this case, none were missed.
Next, the process memory usage.
Here it's 56.05 megabytes.
After that are each frame's
present interval
and GPU time in milliseconds.
You might find all of this data
useful to analyze offline
or to correlate with a video
you capture of gameplay
to give you an even more
accurate insight
into where to focus additional
debugging and optimization.
I hope you enjoyed
learning about
the Metal Performance HUD today.
Use the HUD to visualize
your game's performance.
It will help you spot subtle
performance issues
and help you choose where to use
more advanced tools
like Instruments.
It's easy to enable
on all Apple platforms,
and you can also capture
the data it logs
for your own custom analysis.
I really hope you find it useful
for optimizing your games
and graphics applications.
If you have any feedback,
be sure to send it through
feedbackassistant.apple.com.
Thanks for joining me.